Visualisation Paper BraveNewMeat
================
30 October, 2025



# Inroduction

This is the markdown file for the visualisation of the results from the
scientific research under the name “BraveNewMeat”. The data curator and
main author Morit Herrmann created and validated the data and takes full
responsibility.

## Contribution analysis

The PBMA is modeled with six ingredients and three processes and their
contribution to GWP100, total land use, eutrophication freshwater,
acidification and water scarcity is shown below. Supplementation and
other minor ingredients (seasoning) were cut-off (\< 1 %) but not the
binding agent, methylcellulose. Besides the extruded soybean protein
concentrate, the refined rapeseed oil holds major shares for the overall
environmental impacts. Varying the source of oil (sunflower, olive,
soybean) did not hold any significant changes to the overall
contribution (not shown). For the soy-based drink and tofu, soybeans are
the main contributor.

<img src="BraveNewMeat_V2_files/figure-gfm/showcont-1.png" width="40%" />
\## Results

The data consists of 7 items including 3 reference items (chicken, beef,
milk) and Plant-based alterantives which are:

- soybeans, cooked
- Tofu, plain
- Plant-based meat analogue (PBMA) beef burger
- Soy-drink

The Environmental Data was calculated using SimaPro and the impact
assessment method SALCA v.2. (unpublished) The selected nutritional
Functional Unit (nFU) its 1 g of quality-corrected (qc-) protein or 1
Nutrient rich subscore (NRprot7) per 100 kcal. Additional we did
sensitivity analysis with +/- 20 % input of raw material and changing
country of origin from Switzerland to Brazil for Plant-based
alternatives. Additional, we explored the variation when different
reference values for the qc-protein and NR calculations (age, gender)
were used.

This results in 84 unique entries

We want to know the changes when applying different nFU

<img src="BraveNewMeat_V2_files/figure-gfm/comparison-1.png" width="40%" />

As we see from the data, as soon as we use NRF instead of protein only,
plant-based products rates higher than animal-based products

### nFU (qc-Protein and NRF)

More detailled visualisation per product. For storage the following
order is set: - 1 = CH soy, with adult reference (DIAAS and NRF) - 2 =
BR soy, with adult reference “” “” - 3 = CH soy, with child reference
(DIAAS and NRF)

## Graphical abstract

Select subset of data from the full data. in particular, only result
from the NRprot7 calculations with average DRI for adults are taken into
account

Additional work for Poster session
![](BraveNewMeat_V2_files/figure-gfm/poster-1.png)<!-- -->
